Re-Pair and Des-Pair
====================


Table of Contents
-----------------
  I.    Introduction
  II.   About The Source Code
  III.  Compiling
  IV.   Citing
  VI.   Version
  VII.  Copyright and License



I.  Introduction
----------------

Re-Pair is the name of the algorithm and the software which implements the 
recursive pairing algorithm.  Its corresponding decompressor is Des-Pair.

The Re-Pair algorithm reduces a message by recursively pairing adjacent 
symbols and replacing these symbols with a new symbol.  This continues 
until no pair of adjacent symbols occur twice.  A dictionary of phrases 
(the phrase hierarchy) and a sequence of symbols are produced as output.  
Re-Pair operates off-line as it commences after the entire message has 
been read.  For larger messages, fixed-sized blocks can be created.


II.  About The Source Code
--------------------------

The source code is written in C and compiled using v4.1.2 of gcc for 
Debian v4.0 (etch).  It has been compiled and successfully run on both an 
Intel Pentium 4 CPU (32-bit) and an Intel Core 2 Duo CPU (64-bit).  
However, it takes no advantages of the 64-bit architecture.

This main purpose of this software was for research.  Therefore, 
additional checks and extraneous information has been added into the 
source code which, if removed, may have a small impact on the execution 
time.


III.  Compiling
---------------

The archive includes a Makefile.  Simply type "make" to build the source 
code.  There is no "configure" script for determining the system set-up, 
though this may happen with a future release.

To compress a file, run it as:  "repair -i <filename>".  Two outputs are 
produced:  "filename.prel" and "filename.seq".  The first file is the 
phrase hierarchy (or prelude).  It has been encoded using interpolative 
coding (see the above cites for more information).  The second file is the 
sequence and is simply a file of 4-byte integers which map to the 
hierarchy, with zeroes ("0") marking the end of a block.  An entropy coder 
(such as a minimum redundancy (Huffman)) could be used, which is NOT 
included with this archive.

The cites above made use of the minimum-redundancy coder available here:
  http://www.csse.unimelb.edu.au/~alistair/mr_coder/.

In order to decompress a file, run it as:  "despair -i <filename>".  The 
decompressed file will have the same filename as the original, except with 
a ".u" suffix added.

Run either executable without any arguments to see the list of options.


IV.  Citing
-----------

The algorithm is originally described in:
  - N. J. Larsson and A. Moffat, "Offline Dictionary-Based Compression".
    Proc. IEEE, 88(11)1722-1732, November 2000

Extensions so that Re-Pair can be used for phrase browsing are covered by:
  - R. Wan. "Browsing and Searching Compressed Documents". PhD thesis,
    University of Melbourne, Australia, December 2003.

If you are considering citing this software, then if Re-Pair is being used 
on character (i.e., single-byte) data without any alignment to word 
boundaries, please cite the Proc. IEEE journal.

However, if it is being used in the context of phrase browsing with the 
other software systems such as Pre-Pair (word-based pre-processing), 
Re-Merge (block merging), and Re-Phine (phrase browsing), then please cite 
the thesis.  Re-Phine is not yet publicly available, so e-mail me if you
would not mind an intermediate version.

Of course, providing the web site where you got this software (see below) 
is also possible.


V.  Contact
-----------

This software was implemented by Raymond Wan:
  E-mail:  rwan@kuicr.kyoto-u.ac.jp
  Homepage:  http://www.bic.kyoto-u.ac.jp/pathway/rwan/

Updates to this software can be found at:
  http://www.bic.kyoto-u.ac.jp/pathway/rwan/software.html

While this software is no longer being actively maintained, I would 
appreciate hearing about any bugs, problems, and comments that you have 
and will try to update it as necessary.


VI.  Version
------------

Changes to this software are recorded in the file CHANGES.


VII.  Copyright and License
---------------------------

Copyright (C) 2003, 2007 by Raymond Wan (rwan@kuicr.kyoto-u.ac.jp)

Re-Pair / Des-Pair is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify 
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the 
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your 
option) any later version.  Please see the accompanying file, COPYING for 
further details.


